# AiDockFlow

# Abstract
Structure-based virtual screening of ultra-large chemical libraries is a powerful strategy in early-stage drug discovery. However, the computational expense of physics-based docking necessitates more efficient methods for navigating chemical space. Building upon the active learning framework proposed by *Zhou et al.* in their work "An artificial intelligence accelerated virtual screening platform for drug discovery", **<sup>1</sup>** we present AiDockFlow, a fully-automated pipeline designed to improve the efficiency and robustness of hit discovery campaigns.

Our methodology introduces several key enhancements to the data curation and model training stages. The process begins by curating a high-fidelity set of known actives for a given target, which are partitioned using a scaffold-based split to ensure robust training and validation sets. This is coupled with the generation of a diverse "druglike-centroid" library from ZINC15 to facilitate broad exploration of chemical space, as per the approach proposed by *Zhou et al.*. These high-fidelity actives are labelled as 'binders' and are used for initial training of the surrogate Graph Neural Network (GNN), along with a large sample of the diverse centroids (labelled as 'non-binders').

Another core contribution of our work is to refine the active learning loop where a Graph Neural Network (GNN) surrogate is iteratively retrained. We introduce a three-tiered labelling strategy based on RosetteVS docking scores where the top 10% of docked compounds are labelled as "binders", the bottom 10% are labelled as "non-binders", and the ambiguous middle 50% are ignored to ensure the model is trained only on high-confidence data. Additionally, for reduced computational expense, we replace the cumulative training dataset approach with a "replay buffer" (a smaller, random sample of previously seen compounds) to prevent catastrophic forgetting of model learning. Our final contribution is the addition of PAINS and Brenk filters in addition to the suite of medicinal chemistry filters proposed by *Zhou et al.*
